EMERGENCE — FAS 4 PROBE: LIVE INFERENCE (order §5)
generated 2026-08-14 00:59:37
beats = REAL turning points with the engine's own resolved causes (§1 export, seeds 8919/97013)

1. THE MODEL LOADS IN THIS VEHICLE
  PASS  model found: C:\Users\patri\AppData\Roaming\LLMUnity\models\llama-3.2-1b-instruct-q4_k_m.gguf
  PASS  LLM started (llama-3.2-1b-instruct-q4_k_m.gguf, 1,1 s)
  PASS  director bound, useProse ON

2+3. THE SAME TURNING POINT READS THE SAME WAY TWICE — CACHE BYPASSED
  beat 1 : want owned the hand — Saga steals (Torvhaven)
    causes  : Winter closes over the world | Saga | desperation
    line A  : Desperation drove Saga to steal Torvhaven's owner's hand in a desperate attempt to gain power and control.
    line B  : Desperation drove Saga to steal Torvhaven's owner's hand in a desperate attempt to gain power and control.   (2,0 s for both)
  PASS  beat 1: two cold directors, byte-identical line (106 chars)
  PASS  beat 1: the cache returns exactly what was inferred
  beat 2 : death finds the people for the first time — Ask departs
    causes  : age
    line A  : Death found the people for the first time when they were young and strong.
    line B  : Death found the people for the first time when they were young and strong.   (2,0 s for both)
  PASS  beat 2: two cold directors, byte-identical line (74 chars)
  PASS  beat 2: the cache returns exactly what was inferred
  beat 3 : a first child is born — Liv
    causes  : Ask | Embla
    line A  : The birth was prompted by a request made to the people who had just welcomed their first child into the world.
    line B  : The birth was prompted by a request made to the people who had just welcomed their first child into the world.   (2,4 s for both)
  PASS  beat 3: two cold directors, byte-identical line (110 chars)
  PASS  beat 3: the cache returns exactly what was inferred
  PASS  beat 1 and beat 2 read DIFFERENTLY
  PASS  beat 1 and beat 3 read DIFFERENTLY
  PASS  beat 2 and beat 3 read DIFFERENTLY

4. THE VOICE HOLDS (the machine half; TONE is judged by a human below)
  PASS  no banned word in: "Desperation drove Saga to steal Torvhaven's owner's hand in a despe..."
  PASS  no markup in: "Desperation drove Saga to steal Torvhaven's owner's hand in a despe..."
  PASS  book-row length (106 chars)
  PASS  no exclamation mark
  PASS  no banned word in: "Death found the people for the first time when they were young and ..."
  PASS  no markup in: "Death found the people for the first time when they were young and ..."
  PASS  book-row length (74 chars)
  PASS  no exclamation mark
  PASS  no banned word in: "The birth was prompted by a request made to the people who had just..."
  PASS  no markup in: "The birth was prompted by a request made to the people who had just..."
  PASS  book-row length (110 chars)
  PASS  no exclamation mark
5. THE INVENTION GUARD (a name not in the facts is a lie, not a blemish)
  PASS  a soul who is in no world is CAUGHT ("Astrid")
  PASS  a soul the facts DO name passes
  PASS  ordinary sentence-opening words are not mistaken for names
  PASS  line 1 names nobody the facts do not name
  PASS  line 2 names nobody the facts do not name
  PASS  line 3 names nobody the facts do not name
  PASS  line 1 fits a book row (106 chars)
  PASS  line 1 is ONE line, no paragraphs
  PASS  line 2 fits a book row (74 chars)
  PASS  line 2 is ONE line, no paragraphs
  PASS  line 3 fits a book row (110 chars)
  PASS  line 3 is ONE line, no paragraphs
  guards ruled: accepted=3 refused(word-ban)=0 refused(invention)=0

  ---- FOR THE HUMAN EYE (D-008): read these as chronicle lines ----
   want owned the hand — Saga steals (Torvhaven)
      why: Desperation drove Saga to steal Torvhaven's owner's hand in a desperate attempt to gain power and control.
   death finds the people for the first time — Ask departs
      why: Death found the people for the first time when they were young and strong.
   a first child is born — Liv
      why: The birth was prompted by a request made to the people who had just welcomed their first child into the world.

elapsed: 7,5 s
VERDICT: GREEN  (36/36)
declared: this proves the SERVICE under a real model. Reproducibility is asserted across two cold
  directors on the same loaded model + backend — the pin the setup doc states (CPU inference,
  model+backend version). TONE is a human judgement on the lines printed above, not a PASS here.
